# Force-sensing Violin/Cello Bow Setup

## Preparation (From Scratch)

- Arduino Uno (R3 or R4)
- High Precision AD HAT [Weshare](https://www.waveshare.com/wiki/High-Precision_AD_HAT?srsltid=AfmBOor1leXM9xe6-7A1BlTC_wxGtR8Agmfxziime16S2sFWXsUajrSs)
- BNO055 board [DFRobot](https://wiki.dfrobot.com/sen0374/)
- Bow attached with strain gauges

## Wirings (From Scratch)

Before powering the board, please check twice the connections to avoid burning the board!!!

Arduino UNO -> AD HAT:

- Arduino `D13 (SCK)` -> `SCLK`
- Arduino `D11 (MOSI)` -> `DIN`
- Arduino `D12 (MISO)` -> `DOUT`
- Arduino `D10` -> `CS`
- Arduino `D2` -> `DRDY`
- Arduino `D4` -> `RESET` / `REST`
- Arduino `5V` -> `VCC` (digital logic supply)
- Arduino `5V` -> `AVDD` (analog supply) via the screw terminal block

For the differential mode used in this project, the following shoud NOT be connected:
- `GND` -> `AVSS`

AD Hat to Bow Bridge

- AD Hat `IN0-VCC` -> Bow `E+`
- AD Hat `IN0-GND` -> Bow `E-`
- AD Hat `IN0-AIN` -> Bow `S+`
- AD Hat `IN1-AIN` -> Bow `S-`

Arduino UNO -> BNO055

- Arduino `SDA` -> `SDA`
- Arduino `SCL` -> `SCL`
- Arduino `5V` -> `VCC`
- Arduino `GND` -> `GND`

Arduino UNO -> LTC signal

- Arduino `D3` -> Normalized input

The Normalized input is the raw input biased to fit the Arduino logic.

## Wirings (Already integrated)

- Label ADC:L and ADC:R to ADC. Read the section above to understand the connector orientation.
- Label AVDD to the AVDD screw terminal on the ADC board.
- Label ARD:1, ARD:2 and ARD:3 to Arduino. Read the section above to understand the connector orientation.

## Compiling

Before powering the board, please check twice the connections to avoid burning the board!!!

1. Connect the Arduino to computer
2. Connect the Arduino to 9-12V power input
3. List boards connected 

```bash
arduino-cli board list
```

4. Compile controller program (pick the right FQBN for your board, as displayed by the previous command)

```bash
arduino-cli compile --fqbn <FQBN> realtime-arduino/ads1263_bno055_reader
```

5. Upload program to controller

```bash
arduino-cli upload -p <PORT> --fqbn <FQBN> realtime-arduino/ads1263_bno055_reader
```

6. Monitor output

```bash
python realtime-arduino/stream_logger.py --port <PORT> --baud 230400 --output recordings/ads1263.csv
```

## Calibration

Calibration requires the Arduino already running the controller above.

```bash
python realtime-arduino/calibration.py calibrations/bow.json
```

The calibration data will be appended to the old file if exists.

## Calibration Fitting

```bash
python analysis_calibration_data.py calibrations/bow.json
```

This will generate the quadratic terms for the calibration in `calibrations/bow_params.json`

## Acceleration Compensation

Acceleration Compensation requires a recorded csv file generated by `realtime-arduino/stream_logger.py`

```bash
python acceleration_compensation/fit.py recordings/ads1263.csv
```

The program will save the linear regression coefficients to `recordings/ads1263_coef.json`

## LTC Input

LTC input requires an additional LM2903P chip for pulling the input voltage to Arduino logic.

The schematics are included [in this file](figures/Circuit/SCH_Schematic2_2026-04-30.pdf).

You may generate LTC signals by playing LTC audio generated [on this website](https://elteesee.pehrhovey.net) and wire it to the LTC input circuit through the 3.5mm Audio Jack.

The compatibility with [Cubase LTC](https://www.steinberg.help/r/cubase-pro/15.0/en/cubase_nuendo/topics/synchronization/synchronization_timecode_standards_c.html) still requires confirmation, but in theory it should work.
